# Isa_Alnoaimi_Portfolio
Welcome to my project portfolio! I am an Industrial Engineering student and an aspiring Data Analyst who seeks to continously learn and grow. 
## Excel Projects
As a Portfolio Risk Manager in the TradeQuest Competition, I employed risk managment strategies using Excel in an investment portfolio to mitigate risks and attain the maximum returns. 
### Portfolio Risk Management - Monte Carlo Simulation
In the first project, I utilized the Monte Carlo Simulation to mathematically set stop losses and take profits for the stocks which were selected in the portfolio. This simulation is a risk management tool which generates a total of 1000 random returns of a stock based on the mean and standard deviation of its two year daily returns. Then, the one percentile and 99 percentile of the randomly generated returns are used to set the stop loss and take profit. Finally, the data was visualized by creating a normal distribution graph for each stock.
### Portfolio Risk Management-Portfolio Optimization
In the second project, I optimized the weights of the selected stocks in the portfolio by using historical data and statisitcal tools. By determining the optimal weights of the stocks using the solver feature in Excel, the standard deviation (risk) was minimzed and the expected return and sharpe ratio of the portfolio were maximized. To further prove that the portfolio was optimized, random weights were assigned to each stock in the portfolio 10,000 times. Next, the portfolios' respective standard deviations and expected returns were calculated. Finally, an efficient frontier was constructed to visualize the 10,000 portfolios risk to reward possibilites. 

### Queueing Systems Simulation
A queueing system simulation was created to determine the customer flow in a supermarket's self-checkout, cashier, and a neighboring coffee shop. This was achieved by collecting raw data from the queueing systems, cleaning the data, processing the data, computing the calculations of the queues' parameters, constructing a Monte Carlo Simulation to analyse the queues, and visually demonstrating the analyzed data. On the one hand, the analysis revealed that as the arrival rate of the customers increased, the utilization rate, number of customers in the queue, number of customers in the system, the number of customers waiting in the queue, and the number of customers waiting in the system also increased. However, as the arrival rate increased, the idle time of the queueing systems decreased. On the other hand, the analysis also revealed that as the service rate of the customers increased, the idle time of the queueing systems also increased. However, as the service rate increased, the utilization rate, number of customers in the queue, number of customers in the system, the number of customers waiting in the queue, and the number of customers waiting in the system decreased.  

## Python Projects
### Quality Control Chart
I created a project on a SME construction company which faced an issue with their five-day concrete drying process. To identify the issue behind this process, a quality control chart was utilized to provide a visual representation of the variation within the system by identifying the control limits of the data. It was concluded that when the weather was at its highest during the year, the concrete developed the greatest number of cracks. Furthermore, due to the human error caused by the system's lack of instruction to the laborers in the concrete drying process, the number of cracks on the concrete increased; hence, increasing the overall costs of the projects. 
